---
title: "Crowfund App 2"
date:   2016-01-25 19:01
categories: rails
permalink: crowdfund-2

---
Starting out

Step one:

rails new crowdfund

Creates all the things. 

 - Go to localhost/projects which will be the index page. 
No route exists, head to routes.rb delete all the commented crap and write :

verb "url" => "name_of_controller#name_of_action"

AKA

get "projects" => "projects#index"

Then we have a projects controller error:

 - Go to terminal rails g controller projects

Now we have action 'index' error for ProjectsController. Sweet another error! 

- Add 
          def index
          end

-Refresh, now missing template error. Awesome. 
-Go to Views, Projects and create in index.html.erb
    put some junk content in there e.g. <h1>hello</h1>, refresh and bam!

hello written on the localhost/projects page. Now we on rails!




Cool so we have a view showing html content but we want it to show dynamic content.

So in the Projects Controller we will make an array of projects like so:

@projects = [‘Electric Skateboard’, ‘Meat Popsicle’, ‘Waterproof Teabag’]

Then in the index.html.erb we can call this with <%= @projects %>



Great, now we've created the projects controller we want to create a Project model so we can store projects in the database. 

Run: 
   rails g model project name:string description:text target_pledge_amount:decimal

This creates the model for a database table with the fields Name, Description and Target Pledge Amount. They also have corresponding types such as string, text and decimal. 

Once we run:

   rake db:migrate we now have a database.

We can check the status of the migration with :
   rake db:migrate:status

Status should be up!
